title;abstract;journal;volume
10000-Ignition-Cycle Investigation of a LaB6 Hollow Cathode for 3–5-Kilowatt Hall Thruster;In this Paper a newly designed heaterless LaB6 hollow cathode is studied for 10 000 ignition cycles. The current-voltage characteristics and upstream pressure of the hollow cathode are monitored during this procedure  and a destructive analysis is made after 10 000 ignition cycles. It is found that by using a high-voltage cold ignition approach and an arc discharge mode for heating the performance of this hollow cathode is stable. The anode voltage varies within 4 V during the test  and the downstream end of the emitter and that of the orificed cathode plate are chamfered slightly. The dominant reasons for the reduction of ignition erosion and for the stable performance of the device are analyzed;JPP;35.1
Analytical Approach for Study of Transient Performance of Thermoelectric Coolers;A solid-state thermoelectric device uses the Peltier effect to create a heat flux differential between the junctions of two different types of materials. By applying electrical energy  a thermoelectric cooler can transport heat from the cool side of the device to the heat sink. The purpose of this paper is to develop an analytical tool that can be readily implemented by design engineers in the field of thermoelectric cooler technology. The relatively complicated partial differential equation governing energy transport within the semiconductor elements is reduced to a conventional heat diffusion equation with the aid of a special function and then solved analytically using the integral-transformation technique. The temperature distributions within the semiconductor elements  the Seebeck effect  the thermal conductivity  the cooling load  and the system coefficient of performance for a thermoelectric cooler are determined and analyzed. The transient behavior of a thermoelectric cooler can be used as an optimization tool for various design configurations in meeting specific packaging requirements.;JTHT;33.1
Boundary-Layer Characteristics of Compressible Flow past a Heated Cylinder with Viscous Dissipation;We investigate the flow and heat transfer characteristics of compressible boundary-layer flow past a heated cylinder are investigated  taking into account the effect of viscous dissipation. The governing equations of the compressible boundary layer are reduced to a convenient form for integration introducing suitable dimensionless variables. The resulting equations are then solved numerically using the finite difference method for all time  the perturbation method for short time  and the asymptotic method for long time. For different values of the Mach number 𝑀0 and the surface temperature parameter 𝛼  the numerical solutions are demonstrated to show how the local shear stress and the rate of heat transfer at the surface of the cylinder are affected by these parameters. The influences of those parameters on the streamlines and isotherms are also presented here.;JTHT;33.1
Aluminum Combustion Can Drive Instabilities in Solid Rocket Motors: T-Burner Study;This paper reports experimental and numerical works devoted to the role of aluminum combustion on the stability of solid rocket motors. An experimental setup  known as the velocity-coupled T-burner  which provides measurements of the contribution of aluminum combustion to stability  has been developed and used. Experiments unambiguously show that aluminized propellants have a strong destabilizing contribution  whereas nonaluminized do not. This destabilizing behavior is found to depend much on aluminum agglomerate size distribution. In addition  two-phase numerical simulations are conducted on the setup and confirm experiments. It is found that the instability arises due to a thermoacoustic coupling between pressure waves and the heat release from aluminum combustion. Simulations also stress the role of aluminum agglomerate particle size as in experiments. This work experimentally and numerically proves that aluminum combustion represents a source of instability in solid rockets that should not be overlooked. This suggests that the widely accepted viewpoint that particle phase always damps pressure waves may not be always true for some aluminized propellants.;JPP;35.1
Ballistic Performance of Paraffin-Based Solid Fuels Enhanced by Catalytic Polymer Degradation;Hybrid propellants are of great interest in space propulsion  but their use has been limited due to the low burning rate of their solid fuel. The use of paraffin was a breakthrough  but these grains exhibit excessive brittleness. Recently  it was proposed that the application of paraffin particles agglutinated by a polymer matrix eliminates these issues  but the high temperatures of the binder degradation still impose a limiting factor to the propulsive performance. In the present work  this challenge is overcome by employing a metallic complex as catalyst that selectively lowers the temperature of the polymer degradation  increasing the compatibility between binder and paraffin. For hydroxyl-terminated polybutadiene (HTPB) degradation  Cu  Ni  Co  and Cr acetylacetonate complexes demonstrated catalytic effects in high temperatures  whereas copper acetylacetonate stood out in lower temperatures. Test fires allowed determining the regression rate by using the weight loss method and comparing with the data available in the literature  in which paraffin and HTPB grains set the highest and the lowest limits  respectively. The addition of paraffin particles to HTPB showed some enhancement  while the inclusion of the copper catalyst substantially improved the regression rate  suggesting this fuel grain as a promising alternative for hybrid rocket motors.;JPP;35.1
Burning Rates of Nanoaluminum–Water Solid Propellants at Various Pressures;"The burning rates of solid propellants comprising different nanoaluminum powders and distilled water were examined at pressurized conditions up to 𝑃=7.5MPa. Several aluminum powders were tested using a strand burner technique: uncoated nanopowder (ALEX)  stearic-acid coated nanopowder (L-ALEX)  Viton-coated nanopowder (V-ALEX) with two different particle sizes  and bimodal mixture of V-ALEX and micrometer-size powders. Propellants containing ALEX  L-ALEX  and bimodal compositions followed the power law relation throughout the pressure range  with pressure exponents of 𝑛=0.34  0.5  and 0.28  respectively. Propellants containing V-ALEX powder demonstrated two different regimes: at pressures lower than 1.8 MPa  the burning rates were constant with respect to pressure; whereas for higher pressures  the burning rates followed the power law relation with 𝑛=0.68 and 𝑛=0.81 for powder diameters of 60 and 100 nm  respectively. The combustion efficiency  defined as the fraction of aluminum that oxidized during combustion  showed high values (90–95%) for all tested compositions.";JPP;35.1
Characterization of the Hypergolic Ignition Delay of Ammonia Borane;Hypergolic hybrid motors have the potential to improve the safety  reliability  and versatility of rocket systems. They may also serve as a viable replacement for highly toxic liquid fuels (for example  hydrazine  monomethyl hydrazine  etcetera) conventionally used in hypergolic systems. Ammonia borane (AB)-based fuels are relatively nontoxic hydrogen-dense solids that have good theoretical performance. AB has also been found to be highly hypergolic with white fuming nitric acid (WFNA)  potentially enabling it to replace existing toxic hypergolic fuels. In this work  hypergolic ignition delay tests were performed on AB synthesized with a novel water-promoted scalable process to characterize its performance as a hypergolic fuel. Typical ignition delays with WFNA were found here to be approximately 2–10 ms. Ignition delay tests performed with AB powder sieved into different particle size ranges indicated a particle size dependency for the ignition delay  with the finer AB particles (𝐷<45𝜇m) igniting after shorter delays. AB was successfully incorporated into Sylgard®-184  which is a silicone elastomer binder  and ignition delay tests were performed on high solids loading (80%) Sylgard-184-AB pellets. Mean ignition delays for the Sylgard-184-AB fuel pellets tested were less than 50 ms  which may make the formulation viable for use in hypergolic hybrid motors.;JPP;35.1
Combustible Boundary-Layer Flows Along Inclined Hot Surfaces with Streamwise Surface Temperature Variations;This paper investigates how the streamwise surface temperature variations modify the combustible boundary-layer flows along inclined hot surfaces. The governing equations for reacting boundary-layer flows under natural convection are reduced to a system of dimensionless equations. These equations have been solved using the finite difference method. Numerical results demonstrate that the momentum  thermal  and concentration boundary layers significantly increase owing to the increase of the angle of inclination. It is found from the isotherms that there develops a near-wall layer embedded within the main boundary layer. This maintains an overall thickness for higher values of the streamwise distance. Because of the increase of the amplitude of oscillation  the thermal and concentration boundary layers become thick while the momentum boundary layer becomes thin. In addition  the wall shear stress and the rate of heat transfer are found to increase for increasing values of the amplitude of oscillation.;JTHT;33.1
Compact Scheme Based on the SIMPLER Algorithm for Steady Incompressible Flow Problems;A new compact scheme based on the SIMPLER algorithm is developed for solving steady flow problems on three different coordinate systems. The compact corrective source term based on a compact and upwind formulation can be calculated by a deferred correction technique. The developed method is used to simulate some typical steady flow problems  including lid-driven flow  fully developed flow in a pipe  and channel flow with multiple obstacles. There are good agreements between the present results for coarser grids and the benchmark solutions. The numerical results indicate that the compact scheme is an efficient method for solving flow problem and has higher-order accuracy.;JTHT;33.1
Computational Study of Combustor Dilution Flow Interaction with Turbine Vanes;Higher efficiency and greater performance in gas-turbine engines can be achieved by increasing the combustion temperature but is limited by durability concerns for downstream hardware. Large-scale dilution cooling flows can be injected in the combustor to promote mixing and reduce incoming temperatures  but this generates spatial and temporal nonuniformities for the first row of turbine vanes. The lack of uniformity is exacerbated as combustor designs are reduced in length to reduce overall engine weight  but little is known about how the vane surface conditions are affected. This work computationally modeled the flow in a previously studied nonreacting combustor simulator  using both time-average (steady Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes  RANS) and time-dependent (delayed detached-eddy simulation  DDES) analyses. The effect of several dilution hole configurations on the adiabatic wall temperature and heat transfer coefficient of the first vane were studied in the time-average approach. Configurations in which the dilution jets were closer to the vane resulted in some vane surface cooling but also significant flow nonuniformity at the turbine inlet  high vane temperature gradients  and increased heat flux to the vane. Heat transfer coefficient augmentation on the vane pressure side was more than three times higher than without upstream dilution  for dilution jets close to the vane. The time-dependent DDES analysis predicted a larger degree of mixing and more uniform vane temperatures  relative to the RANS analysis  but also indicated anisotropy of the turbulence entering the turbine  which cannot be correctly captured by a RANS approach. Refinement of the time-dependent analysis in a region around the dilution jets did not significantly change the turbine inlet flowfield and had only a minor impact on the predicted vane surface temperature. Overall  the results indicate that nonuniform flow in the combustor can significantly impact vane temperature but should be modeled using scale-resolving simulations for best accuracy.;JPP;35.1
Demonstration of Thrust Vector Control by Hydrogen Peroxide Injection in Hybrid Rockets;A liquid injection thrust vector control (LITVC) system was designed for a hybrid rocket that uses 95 wt % hydrogen peroxide  and the system was demonstrated by using the hydrogen peroxide as the injectant. The influence of the chamber pressure  injectant flow rate  and injection location on the LITVC performance was parametrically investigated. The investigations revealed that the chamber pressure had a significant influence on the LITVC performance. As the chamber pressure increased from 20 to 40 bar  the side specific impulse improved from 71.7 to 157.3 s under injectant flow rates equal to 9% of the primary gas flow rates and at the injection location of 𝑋/𝐿=0.47 (where 𝑋 is the distance from the throat to the injection location and 𝐿 is the length of the nozzle diverging section). To examine the effects of injection location on the LITVC performance  side specific impulses were measured at 𝑋/𝐿=0.3  0.47  and 0.72 under the chamber pressure condition of 40 bar. Among all injection locations  𝑋/𝐿=0.47 provided the highest side specific impulses under all injectant flow rate conditions. Furthermore  the radial spreading caused by increasing the injectant flow rates degraded the LITVC efficiency.;JPP;35.1
Dynamic Hybrid Reynolds-Averaged Navier–Stokes/Large-Eddy Simulation of a Supersonic Cavity: Chemistry Effects;A Mach 2 supersonic cavity flameholder is simulated using three hybrid Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes (RANS)/large-eddy simulation (LES) turbulence modeling approaches. Finite rate chemistry is included with an ignition-delay-optimized three-step ethylene mechanism. The models investigated include the Improved Delayed Detached Eddy Simulation (IDDES) model  with both steady and unsteady (turbulent) inflow conditions  as well as the dynamic hybrid RANS–LES (DHRL) model with steady inflow conditions. Results are interrogated to determine the effect of combustion on the flowfield within the cavity. Results between the different models are also compared with one another and to experimental data to highlight key differences between them. It is found that both the IDDES model with unsteady inflow (UIDDES) and the DHRL model show significantly better predictive performance than the IDDES model with steady inflow. Analysis of turbulence production mechanisms for each of the models provides insight into the reasons for this behavior. Interestingly  the DHRL model is capable of mitigating well-known weaknesses of traditional hybrid models in the region of RANS-to-LES transition without requiring the use of a more complex unsteady inlet boundary condition prescription.;JPP;35.1
Eulerian and Lagrangian Ice-Crystal Trajectory Simulations in a Generic Turbofan Compressor;This study provides a comparison between an Eulerian and a Lagrangian approach for simulation of ice-crystal trajectories and impact in a generic turbofan compressor. The enginelike geometry consists of a one-and-a-half stage (stator–rotor–stator) compressor  in which the computed airflow is steady and inviscid. Both methods apply the same models to evaluate ice-crystal dynamics  mass and heat transfer  and phase change along ice-crystal trajectories. The impingement of the crystals on the blade surfaces is modeled assuming full deposition for comparison and validation purposes. Moreover  the effect of ice-crystal diameter and sphericity variations on impinging mass flux and particle melting ratio is briefly assessed. Then  a more realistic wall interaction model predicts rebound  shattering  or deposition as a function of impact parameters that is applied. When the full deposition model is activated  an excellent agreement is observed between the Eulerian and Lagrangian approaches for the impinging mass-flux profiles on each blade  while moderate differences appear for the melting curves. However  significant differences appear between both approaches when using the more realistic wall interaction model. The analysis of these results highlights the classic limitations of standard Eulerian and Lagrangian methods for this type of applications.;JPP;35.1
Hybrid Rocket Firing Experiments at Various Axial–Tangential Oxidizer-Flow-Rate Ratios;A breadboard model (BBM) of an altering-intensity swirling-flow-type (A-SOFT) hybrid rocket engine was recently developed  and static firing experiments of the BBM were performed under various axial and tangential oxidizer mass-flow rates. A-SOFTs are intended to control thrust at an optimal oxidizer-to-fuel-mass ratio and achieve a high baseline of regression rates with a fixed motor configuration. This is possible by controlling both the oxidizer mass-flow rate and the effective geometric swirl number. A simple model based on a continuous and monotonic function of oxidizer mass flux and effective geometric swirl number was able to accurately predict the performance of experiments conducted on the A-SOFT BBM. The local fuel regression behavior in the axial direction of the A-SOFT BBM was shown to be like that of a swirling-oxidizer-flow-type hybrid rocket engine. Combustion efficiency was evaluated indirectly using equations for the efficiencies of thrust and specific impulse to eliminate errors due to local pressure shifts and the centrifugal force in swirling flows. In most cases  this indirect method compensated for the overestimations of 𝑐∗ efficiency that resulted by directly using chamber-pressure data.;JPP;35.1
Laser-Ignited Micromotor Using Multiple Stacked Solid Propellant Pellets;"This study proposes the laser-ignited micromotor (LIMO)  which is a new propulsion system for CubeSats to overcome the problems associated with conventional chemical propellants. The solid propellant pellets are stacked and stored in the micromotor. This concept makes it possible to design the total impulse of the micromotor in a flexible manner at a low cost and in a short time  depending on microsatellite missions. In addition  a laser-ignition system is integrated with the micromotor to address the problems of ignition delay and the difficulty in cutting the high-current feed lines of the ignition system. Firing tests are conducted in a vacuum chamber using four types of micromotors with different characteristics; that is  each type has a different number of solid propellant pellets and a different ignition system. Total impulses of 184 and 229N⋅s are achieved by the two types of LIMOs with 98 and 140 stored pellets  respectively  with a burning rate of 30.4mm/s. Ignition delay is improved from 0.37 to 0.04 s by using the laser-ignition system. In addition  an engineering model of the LIMO is designed.";JPP;35.1
Computational Fluid Dynamics Investigation of Transient Effects of Aircraft Ground Deicing Jets;The present Paper investigates the heat transfer and momentum created by a hot turbulent propylene glycol jet impinging on a horizontal plate at below the freezing-point temperature. A model for the simulation of the initial formation of liquid film at the beginning of an aircraft ground deicing process is proposed. The volume of fluid model coupled with the film formulation is employed using computational fluid dynamics to capture the interface in multiphase flow (liquid propylene glycol/liquid water/air). The three-dimensional Reynolds averaged Navier–Stokes equations are numerically solved using a finite volume discretization under unsteady conditions. The ground deicing case consists of a 1m3 box and a convergent divergent nozzle installed inside the box. Approximately 512 000 rectangular cells with 0.006 m of thickness are used to refine the mesh of the liquid film on the wall. Flow conditions set are 60°C for the propylene glycol inlet temperature and 0°C for the static ambient temperature. The computed impinged surface skin Nusselt number gives the most noticeable discrepancies at the stagnation point  where the analysis results in a lower skin Nusselt number compared to the experimental results. The magnitudes of heat transfer for the ground deicing case study are found to be in good agreement with experimental hot jet data obtained from the literature.;JTHT;33.1
Computational Predictions of the Hypersonic Material Environmental Test System Arcjet Facility;The Hypersonic Materials Environmental Test System arcjet facility located at the NASA Langley Research Center in Hampton  Virginia  is primarily used for the research  development  and evaluation of high-temperature thermal protection systems for hypersonic vehicles and reentry systems. To improve testing capabilities and knowledge of the test article environment  a detailed three-dimensional model of the arcjet nozzle and the freejet portion of the flowfield is developed. The computational fluid dynamics model takes into account nonuniform inflow state profiles at the nozzle inlet as well as catalytic recombination efficiency effects at the probe surface. The results of the numerical simulations are compared to the calibrated pitot pressure and the stagnation-point heat flux for three test conditions at low  medium  and high enthalpies. Comparing the results and the test data indicates a partially catalytic copper surface on the heat flux probe of about 10% recombination efficiency and a 2–3 kPa pressure drop from the total pressure measured at the plenum section in front of the nozzle. With these assumptions  the predictions are within the uncertainty of the stagnation pressure and heat flux measurements. The predicted velocity conditions at the nozzle exit are also compared and show good agreement with the radial and axial velocimetry data.;JTHT;33.1
Crossplane Phonon Transport and Thermal Boundary Resistance Across Thin Films Pair;"Crossplane transport of phonons in the silicon and diamond thin films pair is considered  and the thermal boundary resistance is formulated using the cutoff mismatch model at the films pair interface. The transient and frequency-dependent equation for phonon radiative transport is incorporated to simulate the phonon intensity distribution at the interface. Temperature disturbance is introduced at one edge of the silicon film to initiate crossplane phonon transport across the films pair. The thermal boundary resistance predicted from the cutoff mismatch model is compared with that obtained from the diffusive mismatch model. It is found that the cutoff mismatch model predicts higher values of the thermal boundary resistance than that of the diffusive mismatch model. In this case  phonons  which have frequencies mismatching across the interface contribute to the thermal boundary  increase. The thermal boundary resistance predicted from the cutoff mismatch model agrees well with those reported in previous studies. The effect of the silicon film size (width) has a significant effect on the thermal boundary resistance; in which case  reducing the silicon film width lowers the thermal boundary resistance at the interface.";JTHT;33.1
Detecting Material Defects Using a Scanning Laser Beam;A moving line-source laser beam was used to scan the entire surface of a rectangular plate  pursuant to locating defects. The laser generates a point beam of laser energy  which is transformed into a line-heating source using sheet-forming optical components. The heat source is then scanned across the sample by placing the sample in a vertical position on a moving servo table  which moves horizontally at a prescribed speed. A relatively small overall temperature rise of 10° is desired to allow the heat transfer to be modeled mathematically assuming constant thermal properties. A thermal camera was employed for recording the temperature distribution on the nonheated side of the sample. Once a mathematical model or other smoothing technique is fitted to the experimental data  the calculated temperature is subtracted from the measured temperature  and a residual temperature field is created. Additional features of this research include the use of simple spline fits  Bayesian techniques  and the mollification method. The results are provided  which allow for a comparison of the effectiveness of each technique.;JTHT;33.1
Effect of Temperature-Dependent Thermal Conductivity on Spreading Resistance in Flux Channels;When the thermal conductivity of a material varies with temperature  the governing heat conduction equation becomes nonlinear and the use of constant thermal conductivity may produce unreliable results in thermal analysis. In this paper  analytical solutions for the temperature distribution and thermal resistance of a three-dimensional flux channel with temperature-dependent thermal conductivity are discussed and used to study the effect of the temperature-dependent thermal conductivity on the temperature rise and thermal spreading resistance for different conductivity functions. A single eccentric heat source is considered in the source plane of the flux channel that spreads the heat into a convective heat sink. The analytical solutions of the problem are illustrated by means of the Kirchhoff transform  which is considered a powerful technique for solving nonlinear conduction problems with temperature-dependent thermal conductivity. For validation purposes of the analytical results  the results are compared with numerical solution results obtained by solving the problem based on the finite element method using the ANSYS commercial software package.;JTHT;33.1
Optical Diagnostics in a High-Pressure Combustor with Gaseous Oxygen and Kerosene;This paper presents analysis of results from optical diagnostics in a high-pressure combustor burning gaseous oxygen (GOX) and liquid kerosene RP-2 fuel through a jet-swirl coflow injector. The objectives of the experiment were to measure flame stabilization and position under high-pressure conditions. Data were obtained at pressures from 2 to 16.5 MPa and mixture ratios from 2.9 to 20. High-speed cameras captured side-on chemiluminescence and infrared images of the flame. Results show that the flame-spreading angle from the injector ranges from approximately 3 to 6 deg  varying with pressure and propellant mass flow rate. A novel borescope was used to image the flame from upstream of the GOX post  enabling visualization of the flame near its stabilization location. The flame stabilization characteristics change significantly with the fuel flow velocity (which is proportional to pressure). At low pressures and fuel flow velocities  the flame appears to be distributed azimuthally in a nearly axisymmetric manner. At higher velocities  helical spirals of luminosity develop near the GOX post. In addition  the side-on views reveal concentrated streaks of  presumably  fuel entering the combustion chamber. These results suggest that computations must resolve the individual fuel injection orifices  to capture the flame stabilization.;JPP;35.1
Propulsive Performance and Heating Environment of Rotating Detonation Engine with Various Nozzles;Geometric throats are commonly applied to rocket combustors to increase pressure and specific impulse. This paper presents the results from thrust measurements of an ethylene/gas-oxygen rotating detonation engine with various throat geometries in a vacuum chamber to simulate varied backpressure conditions in a range of 1.1–104 kPa. For the throatless case  the detonation channel area was regarded to be equivalent the throat area  and three throat-contraction ratios were tested: 1  2.5  and 8. Results revealed that combustor pressure was approximately proportional to equivalent throat mass flux for all test cases. Specific impulse was measured for a wide range of pressure ratios  defined as the ratio of the combustor pressure to the backpressure in the vacuum chamber. The rotating detonation engine could achieve almost the same level of optimum specific impulse for each backpressure  whether or not flow was squeezed by a geometric throat. In addition  heat-flux measurements using heat-resistant material are summarized. Temporally and spatially averaged heat flux in the engine were roughly proportional to channel mass flux. Heat-resistant material wall compatibility with two injector shapes of doublet and triplet injection is also discussed.;JPP;35.1
Role of Ignition Delay in Rotating Detonation Engine Performance and Operability;Rotating detonation engines (RDEs) represent a promising technology for improving the performance of existing aerospace combustors  but additional research is needed to characterize the operability limits and performance of these devices. In particular  contact surface burning and preignition of propellants can have a profound impact on both performance and limit-cycle detonation behavior  but the detailed mechanisms behind this behavior and the associated scaling with chamber pressure are not well understood. To this end  ignition delay times are computed using a constant pressure–enthalpy  homogeneous reactor model and compared with typical RDE cycle times and operating conditions. Results are presented for combustion in both oxygen and air at various pressures using hydrogen  methane  and natural gas fuels. Results suggest that preignition of propellants before wave arrival may dominate chamber behavior and prevent stable limit-cycle detonation from occurring with certain propellant combinations above certain pressures. The impact of liquid injection is also considered with respect to changes in mixed gas temperature and vaporization delay. Finally  a simplified assessment of the injector dynamic response and turbulent mixing environments are considered in an effort to demonstrate the significance of ignition delay relative to these other mechanisms. These results support observed high-pressure RDE operating behavior in tests conducted at Purdue University  and they provide insight into potential operability limits and scaling of RDEs to high operating pressures.;JPP;35.1
Effect of Transverse Twisted Baffles on Performance and Irreversibilities in a Duct;Thermal performance and entropy generation are studied for water in a square heat exchanger duct equipped with several transverse twisted baffles to obtain optimal working condition. The influences of twisting angle  nondimensional distance between baffles (𝐷/𝐻)  and Reynolds numbers on heat transfer  pressure drop  performance evaluation criteria  and different types of entropy generations are investigated using the finite volume method. The performance evaluation criteria of applying the baffle tend to increase with an increase in the Reynolds number and twisting angle. The performance evaluation criteria at 𝐷/𝐻=1.5 and 𝑅𝑒=350 increase by about 9% when twisting angle increases from 180 to 540 deg. In addition  the utilization of transverse twisted baffles inside a duct decreases the thermal entropy generation. For example  the thermal entropy generation decreases by about 210% using transverse twisted baffles with 𝐷/𝐻=1 and 𝛾=5400 in comparison with an empty duct  without using twisted baffles  at 𝑅𝑒=350.;JTHT;33.1
Electron-Impact Ionization of Atomic Nitrogen;New electron-impact ionization (EII) data are presented for neutral atomic nitrogen. The atom is treated as a 67-state system  incorporating Rydberg values up to 𝑛=20. State-specific cross sections for the first three states are from published 𝐵-spline 𝑅-matrix-with-pseudostates results. Binary-encounter Bethe calculations have been performed for the remaining 64 states. These data are designed for modeling the hypersonic chemistry that occurs when a space vehicle enters Earth’s atmosphere from beyond orbit. The cross sections have been convolved into state-specific thermal rate coefficients and fit with the commonly used Arrhenius–Kooij formula for ease of use in shock-heated air plasma models. Additionally  rate coefficients are provided for a reduced 10-state system for use in coarse-grain models. For a given collisional–radiative model  these fine- and coarse-grain data can be used to generate state-specific rate coefficients for three-body electron–ion recombination  the time-reverse process of EII.;JTHT;33.1
Generalized Thermo-Elastodynamics for Polycrystalline Metallic Thin Films in Response to Ultrafast Laser Heating;A generalized thermo-elastodynamic model applicable to investigating single- and polycrystalline metallic films for their coupled thermal-mechanical responses to ultrafast laser heating is presented. Built upon the two-temperature model  the governing field equations feature hyperbolic electron and lattice energy transports that admit finite propagation speed and incorporate a term of energy dissipation to the generation of thermally induced mechanical disturbance. Electron energy transport in polycrystalline thin film is investigated in-depth by considering temperature dependence and size effect due to film surface and grain boundary scattering. Numerical results generated using the generalized one-dimensional model for a single-crystalline gold film are favorably examined against published experimental data for validation. Several averaged grain diameters are considered to explore the coupled thermal-mechanical responses in polycrystalline gold films of different thicknesses to better understand the dynamics and size effect on energy transport subject to pulsed femtosecond laser.;JTHT;33.1
Simplified Description of Heat Release Oscillations for Assessing Combustor Stability;A simplified description of heat release oscillations associated with vortex-driven combustion instabilities is developed that can greatly reduce the amount of data required for determining the linear stability of combustor eigenmodes. The simplification is achieved by first representing heat release fluctuations as sinusoidal oscillations and then modeling the amplitude of the oscillations using a heuristic assumption of proportionality between the mean and the fluctuating components of local heat release. It is shown that by simply knowing 1) the average heat release  and 2) the heat release at any particular phase of the oscillations  complete spatiotemporal description of heat release oscillations can be reconstructed  and the linear stability of a given eigenmode can be determined. The description is shown to correctly determine the linear stability of a 150 Hz vortex-driven marginal amplitude instability in a laboratory-scale dump combustor with local and global Rayleigh indices within 16% of the experimentally obtained values. The approach opens up the possibility of predicting modal stability in the future without experiments  by using other forms of data  such as computational data on time-averaged heat release distribution and physics-based modeling data on phase-specific heat release rates.;JPP;35.1
Influence of Surface Radiation on Dusty Fluid Along Vertical Isothermal Wavy Wall;A boundary-layer analysis is presented to investigate the surface radiation effects on the natural convection flow of a dusty particulate suspension past a vertical wavy surface. To express the contribution of surface radiative heat flux  the Stefan–Boltzmann law is employed in the boundary conditions of the particulate suspension problem. The governing equations are simulated numerically by using a two-point implicit finite difference scheme. For the validation of the code  results are compared with the benchmark solutions and are found in good agreement. The influence of surface radiation on water/particulate suspension is established through parametric study. The surface radiation parameter 𝑅 and radiative length parameter 𝜆 decrease the magnitude of the skin-friction coefficient and dimensionless heat-transfer rate (Nusselt number). The amplitude of the harmonic oscillations decays with 𝑅 and 𝜆. The momentum and thermal boundary-layer thicknesses reduce considerably when more particles are added into the base fluid.;JTHT;33.1
Investigation of Infrared Signature of Serpentine Nozzle for Turbofan;"Infrared stealth technology is one of the essential abilities for advanced stealth aircraft. The exhaust system is the main infrared radiation source of aircraft. The serpentine nozzle is a potential configuration that could efficiently suppress the infrared signature of the exhaust system  but there are few papers focused on the criteria for designing a serpentine nozzle from the view of infrared suppression. Investigating the effect of the shield ratio on the infrared signature of the serpentine nozzle is the primary purpose of this paper. For the serpentine nozzle  the gas infrared signature level in the vertical plane is greater than that in the horizontal plane  and the wall infrared signature level at the negative azimuth angle in the vertical plane is greater than that at the positive azimuth angle. The shield ratio has an important impact on the infrared signature of the serpentine nozzle  and the analysis indicates that the serpentine nozzle with Δ𝑌=1 has a better stealth performance; additionally  the visible area ratio is suggested to be under 0.041.";JTHT;33.1
Stabilization of Premixed Swirl Flames Under Flow Pulsations Using Microsecond Pulsed Plasmas;A repetitively pulsed plasma was used to stabilize a lean premixed turbulent swirl flame under flow pulsations with amplitudes ranging between 10 and 30% of the total flow rate. Flow pulsations with a frequency of 5 Hz were generated by a high-amplitude flow disturbance system to simulate the surge conditions in real combustors. The discharge pulses were set with a tunable delay time relative to the flow pulsations. When the discharge pulses occur before or during the flow pulsation  the plasma extends the lean flammability limit of the swirl flame. The transient heat-release rate indicates that the flame stabilization is caused by a plasma reignition process. However  when the plasma discharges occur with specific time delays after the flow pulsation  the plasma further destabilizes the flame  which is attributed to wrinkled flame surfaces and shock waves generated by plasma aerodynamic actuation. Increasing the discharge frequency to 40 Hz further extends the ignition limits from 0.63 to 0.45 due to the increased average ignition energy. The paper may provide an alternative solution for direct control of unsteady combustion dynamics.;JPP;35.1
Tailored Fuel Injection for Performance Enhancement in a Mach 12 Scramjet Engine;To investigate the potential performance benefits of tailored fuel injection in a scramjet engine  flow through a rectangular-to-elliptical shape-transitioning scramjet was simulated with two different combustor injection geometries: one with uniform film injection  and the other with oblique-angle cross-flow porthole injectors targeting the flow structures observed in engine simulations. Both engines used inlet injection to promote rapid ignition and burning of the combustor-injected fuel. The simulations were compared with experimental data for validation purposes. The tailored-injection engine fuelled to an equivalence ratio of 1.24 realized higher performance than the film-injection configuration  achieving oxygen-based mixing and combustion efficiencies of 98.9% and 84.9%  respectively. Tailored injection shows promise as a method for improving scramjet performance  allowing higher fuel efficiency with simplified fuel injection  and potentially shorter combustor sections.;JPP;35.1
Local Heat Transfer Coefficient Measurements on an Engine-Representative Internal Cooling Passage;Spatially resolved heat transfer measurements of turbomachinery components can lead to more accurate metal temperature distributions  leading to better predictions of thermal stresses in the blade and  ultimately  blade life. The increased fidelity of the spatially resolved data also provides a data set  which can delineate the complex fluid and heat transfer processes for the purpose of numerical validation. This research applies transient liquid crystal experiments on stationary engine-representative internal cooling passages with a filleted rectangular cross section and staggered 45 deg ribs on two opposing walls. The ribs have a rounded profile and span half the width of the passage. Pressure loss measurements and spatially resolved heat transfer coefficients have been collected over the full surface of the test section over a range of Reynolds numbers (18 000–105 000) for three aspect ratios (1∶2  1∶3  and 1∶4). The experimental results were compared to widely used empirical correlations for ribbed passages with full-width ribs in sharp-cornered passages. The average Nusselt number and friction factor differed from industry-standard correlations by a maximum of 45 and 10%  respectively.;JTHT;33.1
Thermoacoustic Instabilities in an Annular Rotating Detonation Combustor Under Off-Design Condition;Experiments are performed to investigate the combustion features in a laboratory-scale hydrogen (H2)/air annular rotating detonation combustor under the off-design condition of low air mass flow rates. The air mass flow rate is ranged from 10 to 115 g/s  and the overall equivalence ratio is ranged from 0.6 to 1.0. The unstable longitudinal pulsed deflagration (ULPD)  rotating fast deflagration (RFD)  and stable longitudinal pulsed deflagration (SLPD) are found to exist in the combustor according to the analysis of pressure traces obtained at different circumferential and axial positions. The RFD is such a combustion instability coupled with the first tangential acoustic mode  but it occurs very rarely. The propagation speed of the RFD waves is approximately 500 m/s  and the pressure wave amplitudes are as low as 0.2 MPa. The SLPD appears with stronger and periodic pressure oscillations  and it is coupled with the first longitudinal acoustic mode of the combustor. The ULPD found in the present experiment can be regarded as the longitudinal mode even though the main frequency band is wider. The pressure oscillations are very irregular in the ULPD situation  but they are traveling forward and backward along the axial direction of the combustor. The variation of the air mass flow rate has more influence on the oscillation intensity of the deflagration wave than the variation of the equivalence ratio. It is also found that the pressure oscillations in the air and hydrogen plenums are forced by the unstable combustion process in the annular combustor. The unchoked condition of the injectors contributes the system coupling of the combustor and plenum.;JPP;35.1
Two-Hundred-Newton Laboratory-Scale Hybrid Rocket Testing for Paraffin Fuel-Performance Characterization;A series of firing tests have been performed on a laboratory-scale hybrid rocket engine of 200 N class  fed with gaseous oxygen through a converging nozzle injector  to assess the mechanical feasibility and regression rate of a newly developed paraffin-based fuel. Such an injector configuration  by producing recirculation at the motor head hand  has been already demonstrated to influence the standard fuels regression rate  which yields an increase with the port diameter at given mass flux. In this study  paraffin-fuel regression rate dependence on the mass flux and grain port diameter in the form of a power function is determined to be similar to that established with polymeric fuels  despite the different mechanism of consumption that involves the fuel surface liquid-layer instability other than the vaporization typical of classical polymers. Comparison with some data in the literature is presented. Data retrieved from the testing campaign are compared with numerical results obtained by adopting a simple but efficient modeling strategy and a commercial solver. The numerical solution gives evidence of the recirculating flow at the injector exit  which is also responsible for the paraffin contamination observed in the motor prechamber. A good agreement is found with chamber pressure experimentally measured.;JPP;35.1
Melting and Resolidification of Direct Metal Laser Sintering with Multiscale Nonequilibrium Model;A multiscale numerical model based on the nonequilibrium thermal effect for melting and resolidification of direct metal laser sintering with a moving laser beam is developed. The effects of surface tension  buoyancy  and permeability as well as volume shrinkage due to the density change are taken into account. The finite volume method was used in this nonequilibrium model  and the nonequilibrium model is solved numerically using the SIMPLE algorithm method with iterative tridiagonal matrix algorithm. The surface temperature distributions and shapes of top surface  liquid–upper mushy  upper mushy–lower mushy  and lower mushy–solid interfaces are investigated. The results show that  during the melting progress  the liquid region  upper mushy zone  and lower mushy zone are formed on the top of unsintered zone. The parametric study shows that the top surface  liquid–upper mushy  upper mushy–lower mushy  and lower mushy–solid interfaces become lower with increasing laser intensity  increasing initial porosity  or decreasing scanning velocity.;JTHT;33.1
Multiobjective Optimization of Annular Fin Array Subject to Thermal Load;The life of an annular fin is shortened by the thermal stress developed due to the temperature difference along the length of the fin. However  the thermal stress in fin arrays is yet to be analyzed in detail. Because of that fact  the design of an annular fin array is formulated here as a multiobjective optimization problem  primarily for maximizing the heat transfer rate and minimizing the developed maximum thermal stress. For further assessment  minimization of the total fin volume of the array and maximization of the surface efficiency are considered as two additional objective functions. Considering an array of identical fins having a plane profile  the half-thickness at the base  the half-thickness at the tip  and the outer radius of an individual fin along with the number of fins in the array are taken as four design variables. Evaluating through the hybrid spline difference method  the four objective functions are optimized in different combinations by employing nondominated sorting genetic algorithm II. The proposed procedure should help a designer to choose a compromise fin array configuration from a set of tradeoff optima based upon the availability of resources.;JTHT;33.1
Natural Convection in an Enclosure with a Pair of Discrete Heat Sources;An experimental and numerical study is carried out to investigate natural convection cooling characteristics of discrete heat sources in a rectangular enclosure. One of the sidewalls of the enclosure is heated by a pair of identical discrete heat sources  whereas the other sidewall is maintained at a constant temperature. The effect of the heat dissipation ratio of the heat sources on buoyancy-induced flow and heat transfer characteristics is investigated. Experimental studies are performed for a constant value of the modified Rayleigh number (𝑅𝑎∗=7.7×105) and three different values of the heat dissipation ratio (𝑟ℎ=𝑞˙1/𝑞˙2=0.5  1 and 2)  whereas numerical studies cover the range of 104 to 5×106 for the modified Rayleigh number and different values of the heat dissipation ratios between 0.25 and 2. In the experimental study  qualitative flow visualization studies are carried out as well as temperature measurements. In the numerical study  a commercial computational fluid dynamics code in ANSYS Fluent is used. The variations of the surface temperatures  the hot spot temperature  and the mean Nusselt number with the modified Rayleigh number and the heat dissipation ratio are obtained. Results are presented in terms of streamlines  isotherms  and heat lines.;JTHT;33.1
Nitrogen Surface Catalyzed Recombination Efficiency from Two-Photon Laser Induced Fluorescence Measurements;Measurements of temperature and species gradients in the thermal boundary layer adjacent to different surfaces exposed to nitrogen plasma are made to characterize surface-catalyzed recombination. Laser-induced nitrogen atom fluorescence signals are obtained with submillimeter spatial resolution to provide a direct indication of surface-catalyzed reactivity. Further analysis of the measured quantities balancing the diffusive reactant flux with the consumption of atoms by surface reaction yields direct quantitative values for surface-catalyzed reaction rates and catalytic efficiencies. Materials tested in the present work include metals and quartz  and the surface-catalyzed recombination efficiencies are (8.05±2.01)×10−3  (5.74±1.44)×10−3  (2.10±0.53)×10−3  and (1.03±0.26)×10−4 for polished copper  cooled virgin nickel  unpolished copper  and cooled quartz  respectively. Comparisons between these values and previously published results suggest that this technique provides a useful means to characterize the catalytic behavior of high-temperature materials in plasma test facilities.;JTHT;33.1
Aging Effects on the Burning Rates of Composite Solid Propellants with Nano-Additives;The aging behavior of composite propellant is a key parameter in determining the usable service life of an energetic system. The effect of aging on composite propellant burning rates is an understudied topic in the open literature. Recent research in the authors’ laboratory has led to the development of high-burning rate propellants containing titania nanoparticles and fluorescing propellants containing quantum dots. The current study assessed the aging behavior of composite ammonium perchlorate (AP)/hydroxyl terminated polybutadiene propellants  with specific emphasis on fluorescent properties and burning rates. Propellant formulations were based on either 80% monomodal or 85% bimodal AP distributions with and without titania nanoparticles and quantum dots. Propellant samples were thermally aged at temperatures of 63 and 85°C and humidity levels of 25 and 75% for up to 195 days to yield approximate service lives in the range of 0–25 years. Fluorescent imaging experiments were conducted with an ultraviolet light source to measure the uniformity of propellant samples. Ballistic testing was conducted in a constant-volume strand burner over the pressure range of 500–2250 psia (3.5–15.5 MPa). Spatial uniformity of the propellant fluorescence was not significantly altered with propellant age but did decrease in intensity to some degree. In general  the burning rate and pressure index of propellants decreased with increasing service life. Propellant formulations containing 85% bimodal AP were found to be more stable than formulations containing 80% monomodal AP. Inclusion of quantum dots or titania nanoparticles in the propellant formulation increased aging stability.;JPP;35.2
Noncontact Near-Field Photon Transfer Control Using Metamaterial;In this paper  by using a microcomblike metamaterial  noncontact control of near-field evanescent photon tunneling is achieved. With the control of spoof surface modes inside the comb  resonant frequencies of tunneling peaks can be tuned without disturbing the surface structure or causing separation. An analytical model based on effective medium theory is employed to understand the tuning effect and elucidate the origin of different tunneling modes. The current study can enrich the basic understandings of near-field radiation heat transfer  and they help various applications like aerospace thermal management and near-field spectroscopy.;JTHT;33.1
Numerical Analysis of an Actively Cooled Low-Reynolds-Number Hypersonic Diffuser;This paper presents a comprehensive numerical study of a low-Reynolds-number hypersonic diffuser designed for a 1.6 MW Arc-Heated Wind Tunnel facility. The numerical study includes the detailed computational fluid dynamics (CFD) investigation of the high-temperature  viscous  chemically reacting nonequilibrium hypersonic flowfield inside the diffuser with Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes simulations at a number of diffuser exit pressure conditions. The CFD analysis is used to evaluate the overall performance of the configuration at selected operating conditions and to provide wall heat flux values for the numerical analysis and design of an active cooling system for the thermal management of the diffuser. The CFD results are obtained with noncatalytic and fully catalytic wall assumptions to bound the estimated heat flux to the diffuser walls. The effects of surface catalyticity and thermochemical nonequilibrium on the flowfield are discussed  with the emphasis on diffuser and active cooling system design. A detailed numerical analysis focusing on active cooling of the diffuser is presented. The results of the CFD and thermal analyses presented in this paper are expected to be a valuable addition to the very limited literature on low-Reynolds-number hypersonic diffuser design.;JTHT;33.1
Background Pressure Effects on Ion Velocity Distributions in an SPT-100 Hall Thruster;Increased background pressure in vacuum chamber test facilities as compared to on-orbit operation has been shown to influence the operation of electric propulsion devices such as Hall thrusters. This study aims to elucidate the impact of pressure on the ionization and acceleration mechanisms in a stationary plasma thruster  model SPT-100 Hall thruster  using time-averaged and time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence velocimetry. The results are compared for the thruster operating at an applied 300 V (∼4.25A)  with vacuum facility background pressures ranging from 1.7×10−5 to 8.0×10−5torr. Time-averaged measurements reveal that  in general  an upstream shift in the position of the ionization and acceleration regions occurs as the facility pressure is increased above the nominal 1.7×10−5torr. Time-resolved measurements  implemented using a sample-hold scheme with 1𝜇s resolution  emphasize that similar acceleration profiles are present within the Hall thruster discharge channel regardless of background pressure. Measurements taken at 3.5×10−5torr  where the facility background neutral density is similar to the neutral density emitted from the thruster  unexpectedly show increased ion acceleration over the next highest pressure condition at 5.0×10−5torr. These results indicate a not-yet well defined balance of the impacts of neutral ingestion  classical and turbulent electron transport on thruster operation  and that the ratio of the background to thruster neutral density is a more relevant benchmark than background pressure alone when evaluating Hall thruster operation.;JPP;35.2
Data-Driven One-Dimensional Modeling of Pseudoshocks;In dual-mode scramjet engines  the isolator comprises complex shock structures that provide the necessary compression of incoming air to sustain combustion farther downstream. This region of pressure increase is termed a pseudoshock. For stable scramjet design  it is essential to ensure sufficient length of isolator to fit the pseudoshock and achieve the target compression. Hence  models that can predict the pressure rise across and the length of the pseudoshock are valuable in this context. Although several empirical and reduced-order models are available in the literature  it is found that such models do not reliably predict the pseudoshock characteristics. To address this issue  a one-dimensional model is developed from a flux-conserved approach  which captures the pressure growth profiles for a wide range of Mach numbers. The model parameters are initially calibrated using a genetic algorithm but were found to exhibit variations based on experimental conditions. Using these results as prior information  a Bayesian approach is used to describe the one-dimensional model and related uncertainties statistically. This approach provided interesting insights  notably the ability to reduce the number of parameters. The resulting model accurately reproduces the pseudoshock characteristics over the range of operating conditions tested.;JPP;35.2
Development of Kinetic Models for the Hybrid Fuels Combustion Containing Aluminum Particles;Recent studies identified the addition of metal particles into conventional liquid fuels (jet fuel  gasoline  diesel) as one possible strategy to increase fuel energy density and specific impulse. The objective of this work is to evaluate the combustion potential of hybrid fuels by developing detailed chemical mechanisms to model their behavior. Thus  this work is focused on 1) identifying the key parameters that control the promoting/inhibiting effects of aluminum on jet fuel combustion and 2) the assessment of the impact of 1% (weight) of passivated aluminum on the main combustion parameters (combustion temperatures  ignition delays  laminar flame speeds). This study considers the combined effects of aluminum and alumina on combustion properties based on the ratio of their mole fractions. The analyses of the mechanism revealed 1) the origin of the promoting/inhibiting effects on combustion and 2) that the hybrid fuel combustion exhibits a three-stage reactivity  whereas the conventional jet fuel presents only one. This work proposes a first detailed kinetic mechanism for hybrid fuels combustion. Moreover  the numerical results obtained in this wide parametric study evidence that hybrid fuels must be used in fuel-rich regimes at low temperatures (𝑇<800K) to maximize their combustion performance.;JPP;35.2
Extrapolation of Laminar Ethylene/Air Flame Speeds at Elevated Pressures with Flame Chemistry Analysis;The laminar flame speeds of ethylene/air flames at various pressures (up to 10.0 atm) were measured using the expanding spherical flame. Three commonly used extrapolation models were employed  and the individual effects of pressure and flame radius range on the extrapolation uncertainty were investigated. It was found that the reduction in flame thickness reduces the extrapolation uncertainty at high pressures. At low pressures  large values of both lower and upper bounds of the extrapolation range in the flame radius range are preferred to reduce the extrapolation uncertainty. The measured laminar flame speeds were then compared with those from previous works and computations using USC and UCSD mechanisms. Sensitivity analysis was further conducted to illustrate the effects of pressure and equivalence ratio on flame chemistry and to reveal the controlling reactions for flame propagation. It was found that the laminar flame speed is more sensitive to flame chemistry at higher pressures  while the relative importance of individual chemical reactions is rarely affected by pressure. The C0 and C1 reactions were found to be the key for the laminar flame speed of ethylene/air flames under fuel-lean conditions  while the C2 reactions assume comparable importance with the C1 reactions on the fuel-rich side.;JPP;35.2
High Pressure Fuel Regression Characteristics of Axial-Injection End-Burning Hybrid Rockets;This study is an investigation of axial-injection end-burning hybrid rockets aimed at revealing fuel regression characteristics under relatively high-pressure conditions. Firing tests are conducted using gaseous oxygen as the oxidizer at chamber pressures and oxidizer port velocities ranging from 0.22 to 1.05 MPa and 31 to 103m/s  respectively. The results of 15 static firing tests show that the fuel regression rate increases as the chamber pressure increases  and regression rates range from approximately 1.1mm/s at 0.25 MPa to 5.5mm/s at 0.90 MPa. Furthermore  it is observed that the pressure exponent of the fuel regression rate is 1.05 and the fuel regression rate is not influenced by the oxidizer port velocity in this study. The model explains that the backfiring problem tends to occur in relatively high-pressure conditions  and it leads to the conclusion that increasing the nozzle throat diameter is an effective means of preventing backfiring from occurring.;JPP;35.2
Influences of Domain Symmetry on Supersonic Combustion Modeling;High-fidelity Improved Delayed Detached Eddy Simulation modeling is applied to examine the influence of the symmetry plane on the supersonic flow and combustion characteristics in a round-to-elliptic–transition scramjet combustor. A quarterly split domain and the full domain are modeled by using up to 0.14 billion cells and a third-order scale-selective discretization scheme. The combustion chemistry is described by the finite-rate partially stirred reactor model based on multicomponent diffusion and a skeletal kerosene mechanism with 19 species/53 reactions. Time-averaged pressure  temperature  Mach number  and heat release rate are compared to examine the influence of the symmetry assumption on the mean flow fields. The exchanges of mass  momentum  and energy across the symmetry planes are analyzed. Considerable increases in the combustion efficiency and total pressure loss occur when applying the full domain  although with the similar mixing efficiency. Turbulence spectrum analysis confirms the −8/3 power-law for supersonic flows  and the inertial subrange is found to be shorter in the quarter-domain modeling. A comparison of the Borghi’s diagrams shows that the data points shift from the flamelet mode to the thin reaction zone mode when using the full domain  and at least 1/3 of them cannot be described by fast-chemistry combustion models.;JPP;35.2
Investigation of Stall Inception Behavior in a Centrifugal Compressor with Bent Pipe/Volute Coupling Effect;"The centrifugal compressor typically has a bent inlet pipe and volute due to the engine equipment installation  leading to the existence of asymmetric structures in both the inlet and outlet of the impeller. Under the coupling effect between the bent inlet pipe and outlet volute  the onset time and the circumferential position of the stall inception  as well as the stall development process  will be influenced. In this work  three centrifugal compressor models are investigated. The M0 model has the straight inlet pipe  and the M1 and M2 models have bent inlet pipes with different installation angles between the bent pipe and volute tongue. Unsteady numerical simulations are carried out  and the static pressure distributions of the casings are compared between the experiment and unsteady time-averaged results  to validate the unsteady simulations. Based on the casing static pressure comparison  unsteady simulations of the stall process are carried out for three models. Results show that the influence of the bent pipe on the stall process is smaller than that of the volute. Therefore  the circumferential onset position of stall inception is always located at the circumferential position of the pressure peak induced by the volute  irrespective of the pipe installation angle. The onset times of stall inception for the bent pipe models are earlier than those of the straight pipe models. When the low total and static pressure region of the bent pipe’s inner wall acts on the same position of the pressure peak region induced by the volute at the impeller inlet (corresponding to model M1)  the momentum of incoming flow reduces at this position; thus  the capability of resistance to reverse pressure gradient decreases  which causes an earlier stall inception onset. In contrast  when the high total and static pressure region of the bent pipe outer wall acts on the same position of the pressure peak region induced by the volute at the impeller inlet (corresponding to model M2)  the stall inception onset time will be delayed. Meanwhile  the stall development process of M2 is faster than that for M1. In the application of an inlet bent pipe  the installation angle of model M2 should be adopted to delay the stall inception onset and improve compressor performance.";JPP;35.2
Ion Optics’ Thermally-Induced Gap and Aperture Misalignment Reduction by Selective Laser Melting;High operation temperatures in ion thrusters with metallic ion optics lead to unequal thermal expansion of screen and accelerator grids. Larger normal and tangential displacements of the screen grid result in grid-to-grid gap change and aperture misalignment  which affects the perveance of the optics and modifies ion trajectories. To mitigate this problem  a solution that consists of more uniform thermal expansion of the optics is proposed. By rendering accelerator grid more elastic (i.e.  reducing the elastic modulus) to make it easier to expand and increasing the coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE)  grid-to-grid gap change and aperture center misalignment are not as pronounced as when both optics have the same properties. Selective laser melting with different fabrication parameters was used to produce molybdenum and titanium samples with different CTE and Young moduli  which were introduced in a thermoelastic model applied to a set of 50 cm domed ion optics. It has been showed that a 20% CTE increase and 25% elastic modulus reduction of the accelerator grid with respect to screen grid produced a 65% grid-to-grid gap change reduction and a 38% aperture misalignment reduction  compared with typical optics’ sets. However  the selective laser melting fabrication and testing of grids with feature control have not been accomplished yet.;JPP;35.2
Linear Acoustic Analysis of the Preburner of an Oxidizer-Rich Staged Combustion Engine;The linear acoustic behavior of an oxidizer-rich staged combustion engine preburner assembly that was similar to that of the RD-170 has been investigated by using real fluid speeds of sound to accommodate supercritical pressures. The speeds of sound  and hence the resulting frequencies  were approximately 20% higher than would be expected from ideal gas assumptions  which is a critical point of difference between the acoustic behavior of the preburner versus the main chamber. The results show that the mode shapes in the preburner–turbine inlet assembly are largely invariant with respect to the boundary condition used for the turbine blade row  but the frequencies are noticeably affected. The 2L mode is totally suppressed for both the acoustically open case and the case with the blade row impedance condition. The remaining longitudinal modes are damped. Both the frequency and the mode shape of the 1T mode remain totally invariant because the oscillations are confined to the injector regions and do not exhibit acoustic velocity with components normal to the impedance surface. The lack of damping of the 1T mode by the blade rows  combined with the relatively high magnitudes of acoustic velocity near the combustion zone  suggests that the 1T mode is a likely candidate to experience instability if it is suitably energized by the heat release.;JPP;35.2
Research on the Effect of Soot Self-Absorption on Flame Multispectral Radiation Reconstruction;In this paper  an iterative multiwavelength method is proposed for the reconstruction of soot temperature and volume fraction fields in an axisymmetric flame with absorbing  emitting participating media. The Tikhonov regularized method is employed to solve the ill-posed matrix  by which the local radiative source term of two-dimensional space elements are obtained. The effects of the absorption term and the quantity of wavelength selected on the accuracy of reconstruction were evaluated quantitatively. When comparing with the two-color method  the present inversion results show that the accuracy of the multiwavelength method is better and the inversion range is larger than  even with external noise.;JTHT;33.1
Turbulent Aeroheating Measurements on a 7-Deg Cone in High-Enthalpy CO2 Flow;"A database of heating and pressure measurements on a 7 deg half-angle cone in a high-enthalpy expansion tunnel in CO2 has been generated to support development and validation of computational models to be employed in the design of future Mars missions. Laminar  transitional  and turbulent simulations were performed at the test conditions for comparisons with the data. Close agreement was obtained for both fully laminar and fully turbulent conditions. For the remaining transitional/turbulent conditions  agreement to within  or slightly more than  the estimated experimental uncertainty was demonstrated. The influence of transition intermittency and transition length models on predicted heating levels was demonstrated  as were differences in turbulent heating predictions generated using various algebraic  one-equation  and two-equation turbulence models. These comparisons provide some measure of confidence in turbulent simulation capabilities; however  because the data were not obtained on a relevant entry vehicle geometry  it is not possible to fully quantify computational uncertainties for the definition of Mars mission aerothermodynamic environments at this time.";JTHT;33.1
Monitoring Modulus and Stress-Free Temperature with Health Monitoring Sensors;Bond-line stress and temperature sensors have been proposed in the past as a means to monitor the health of solid rocket motors. However  these previous works have only assessed the ability of these sensors to detect defects such as bond-line delaminations and bore cracks. In this work  the sensors were used to determine the effects of aging on the propellant modulus and the stress-free temperature. When composite propellants are cured  the molecular chains in the polymer entangle and cause shrinkage. This shrinkage causes stresses in the propellant at the cure temperature. Another cause of propellant stress is the differing coefficients of thermal expansion. Because the case and propellant have very different coefficients of thermal expansions  any cooling has an associated induced stress field in the propellant. Because the bond-line stress is linearly proportional to the temperature  the motor can be heated and cooled at 0.05°C/min while monitoring the bond-line stress. From these data  the stress-free temperature can be determined. These same data also produce estimates of the modulus. In this work  the analysis of the data showed a small decrease in the stress-free temperature and a moderate increase in the stiffness of the propellant  which correlates with the expected results.;JPP;35.2
Unsteady Radiative Heat Transfer Model of a Ceria Particle Suspension Undergoing Solar Thermochemical Reduction;"Unsteady radiative heat transfer is analyzed numerically in a directly irradiated plane-parallel medium containing a suspension of ceria particles undergoing nonstoichiometric thermal reduction. The micrometer-sized ceria particles are assumed homogenous  nongray  absorbing  emitting  and anisotropically scattering  whereas the overall medium is of nonuniform temperature and composition. The unsteady mass and energy conservation equations are solved using the finite volume method and the Shampine–Gordon time integration scheme. Radiative transport is modeled using the energy-portioning Monte Carlo ray-tracing method with radiative properties obtained from the Mie theory. Increasing the particle volume fraction and decreasing the particle diameter both increase the optical thickness of the particle suspension  resulting in increasing peak temperature and nonstoichiometry at steady state. For 5𝜇m-diam particles under 1000 suns irradiation  the peak temperature at steady state ranges from 1855 K for a particle volume fraction of 𝑓𝑣=10−6 to 2092 K for 𝑓𝑣=10−4; the temperature nonuniformity ranges from 9 to 622 K. For a fixed volume fraction of 𝑓𝑣=10−6  decreasing the particle diameter from 20 to 1𝜇m increases the peak temperature at steady state from 1734 to 2162 K; the temperature nonuniformity increases from 9 to 61 K.";JTHT;33.1
Aerothermodynamic Design Optimization of Hypersonic Vehicles;The objective of this study is to develop a reliable and efficient design optimization method for hypersonic vehicles focused on aerothermodynamic environments. Considering the nature of hypersonic flight  a high-fidelity aerothermodynamic analysis code is used for the simulation of weakly ionized hypersonic flows in thermochemical nonequilibrium. A gradient-based method is implemented for optimization. Bezier or nonuniform rational basis spline curves are used to parametrize the geometry or the geometry change. Linear elasticity theory is implemented for mesh deformation. Penalty functions are utilized to prevent undesired geometrical changes. The design objective is to minimize drag without increasing the total heat transfer rate and the maximum values of the surface heat flux  temperature  and pressure. Design optimizations are performed at different trajectory points of the IRV-2 vehicle. The effects of parametrizations  the number of design variables  and freestream conditions on design performance are studied.;JTHT;33.2
Numerical Investigations of S-Shaped Air Inlet for Embedded Engines;In this paper  compressible Reynolds-averaged Navier–Stokes computations are conducted for an S-shaped duct  in a clean configuration and also with a single row of vortex generators. The numerical simulations are performed using a hybrid unstructured grid. The influence of including the geometric representation of the probe instrumentation is investigated by considering the rake fairing geometry and also the geometry of the complete rake with the probes. Some aspects of the probe modeling are also discussed. A direct comparison of the numerical simulation results with the experimental values is performed for the wall static pressure along the duct  total pressure recovery  and distortion indices at the aerodynamic interface plane. Three different eddy-viscosity turbulence models are evaluated: the one-equation Spalart–Allmaras  and the two-equation realizable 𝑘-𝜀 and shear stress transport. A virtual 200-probe rake is also proposed  beyond the standard 40-probe rake  to enrich the total pressure and distortion indices comparisons. An overall good agreement is observed among experimental results and the numerical wall static pressure and the total pressure topology at the aerodynamic interface plane. Some discrepancies for the distortion indices are verified and discussed in detail.;JPP;35.2
Analytical Solution of a Generalized Two-Dimensional Model for Laser-Flash Thermal Diffusivity Measurements;This paper presents a two-dimensional model that generalizes the use of the laser flash method for thermal diffusivity measurements of homogeneous  opaque  and two-dimensional (2-D) anisotropic solid materials in the form of thin disk-shaped samples. The model employs partial central or annular pulse heating of the front sample side and a temperature detection over a generally decentralized circular surface on the rear or front sample side. A general analytical solution of related 2-D heat conduction problem with boundary and initial conditions that may exist in reality (such as radiation heat transfer between specimen surfaces and the environment  nonuniform pulse heating  finite pulse duration  and laser pulse penetration) is presented in a partial integral form. The solution for the transient temperature over the decentralized detection surface is transformed from a double integral to a single integral  which reduces the processing time in numerical computation. A simplified solution is given for the partial uniform pulse heating  rectangular pulse duration  and negligible laser pulse penetration depth. Following the simplified solution  four different applications of the presented model for the case of the rear-side temperature detection are described  together with an example of a related sensitivity analysis for the selected set of parametric values. The influence of the size and position of the detection surface on the transient temperature response is separately analyzed  and the results are presented in the last section of the paper.;JTHT;33.2

